    I became enamoured with chairs in the college library, when I often sat in an impeccably designed Setu Chair by Herman Miller. I watched a video showing how the tightly strung mesh seat contoured to my body and let my body seemingly float and breathe, while a plastic structure was designed and iterated hundreds of times until the perfect flexible design was discovered to move with my body. I was inspired to make furniture. My focus is chairs, which are great design problems because they require use of engineering, ergonomics, and aesthetics. 
  If you think about the forces that a chair deals with when compared to house, a chair seems much more impressive. For instance, the weight of an average house is many times heavier than the items and people in it, while chairs are only a small fraction of the weight of people. Then, one should consider the fact that people in chairs will shift all of their weight to just one single leg or rock back-and-forth on the chairs. These dynamic forces that are routinely placed on chairs make buildings fall, like we often see in earthquakes. Chair designers and makers do a good job of hiding all of the complex engineering and joinery that goes into creating chairs. 
  With work becoming more sedentary, ergonomics are becoming more important. Chairs, like the Setu, that encourage the body to move, are becoming more popular. Emphasis is being placed specifically on the lower back as health problems from sitting too much increase. Some argue that no back support is good because it requires the user to build up muscle in the abs and back to sit. Others argue for plenty of lower back support saying that 8-plus hours of no back support is too much work for the muscles. But, most see a hybrid of both being important. 
   Aesthetics of chairs have always been important. Most believe that the first chairs were made for royalty to project their power. Traditionally, highly skilled craftsmen made chairs with extremely ornate detailing, which have made them a constant in museums. Now chairs are much more common but still expressive. Newer materials, like polycarbonate allow for see-through furniture, while carbon fiber offers extreme lightness and strength for almost unbelievably thin, yet strong chairs.
   Over the past few years, I have created many unique and utilitarian chairs, which innovate by using tension on steel cables like suspension bridges. They required careful engineering to hold the person and encourage movement. The chairs are also visually striking much like suspension bridges. These skills of engineering, ergonomics, and aesthetics required for chair design are also important to web development. I look forward to applying these skills to making efficient, easy to use, and visually appealing web applications.  


